README.md, before:

# UO Outlands Mac Installer

Automated installation script for [UO Outlands](https://uooutlands.com/) on Apple Silicon Macs using Wine + [Sikarugir](https://github.com/Sikarugir-App).

## Requirements

- Apple Silicon Mac (M1/M2/M3/M4)
- macOS 13 (Ventura) or later
- ~10 GB free disk space
- [Homebrew](https://brew.sh) installed
- Internet connection

## Installation

### One-liner (copy & paste into Terminal)

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Srbino/uo-outlands-mac/main/install.sh | bash
```

### Step by step

If you've never used Terminal before:

1. Open **Terminal** (press `Cmd + Space`, type `Terminal`, hit Enter)
2. Install [Homebrew](https://brew.sh) (if you don't have it) — paste this and follow the prompts:
   ```bash
   /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
   ```
3. Download and run the installer:
   ```bash
   curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Srbino/uo-outlands-mac/main/install.sh -o install.sh
   chmod +x install.sh
   ./install.sh
   ```
4. Follow the on-screen instructions. The Outlands installer GUI will pop up — install the game and **close the installer window** when done.
5. Launch the game by double-clicking `outlands.app` in `~/Applications/Sikarugir/`

The script will install and configure everything automatically:
- Rosetta 2
- Wine Stable + Sikarugir (via Homebrew)
- Latest Wine engine + wrapper template (auto-detected from GitHub)
- Outlands wrapper with D3DMetal, WINEESYNC/WINEMSYNC
- .NET runtimes (dotnet20sp2, dotnet40, dotnet481)
- UO Outlands game client

## Uninstall

```bash
# Remove game only (wrapper + Sikarugir data)
./install.sh --uninstall

# Remove everything including Wine and Sikarugir brew casks
./install.sh --purge
```

## What It Installs

| Component | Location |
|-----------|----------|
| Wrapper | `~/Applications/Sikarugir/outlands.app` |
| Engines/Templates | `~/Library/Application Support/Sikarugir/` |
| Wine Stable | `/Applications/Wine Stable.app` (via Homebrew) |
| Sikarugir Creator | `/Applications/Sikarugir Creator.app` (via Homebrew) |
| Install log | `~/Library/Logs/outlands_install_*.log` |

## Features

- Bash 3.2 compatible (stock macOS `/bin/bash`)
- Idempotent — safe to re-run, skips completed steps
- Auto-detects latest engine and template versions from GitHub
- All downloads verified (`curl -f`, non-empty check)
- Cleanup trap for temp files on failure
- Full install log with timestamps

## Audio Setup

Wine on macOS often produces audio crackling. After installation:

1. Open **Audio MIDI Setup.app** (press `Cmd + Space`, type `audio midi`)
2. Select your output device
3. Change sample rate to **48000 Hz** or **96000 Hz**

Wired headphones work better than Bluetooth for Wine audio.

## Tips

- Switch between Razor and Game windows: **Cmd + \`** (backtick)
- Reconfigure wrapper: Right-click `outlands.app` → Show Package Contents → `Configure.app`
- Razor profiles location: `drive_c/users/crossover/Application Data/Razor/`

## Tested On

- M3 MacBook Air, macOS Tahoe (26.x)
- M4 Mac Mini, macOS Tahoe (26.x)
- Engine: WS12WineSikarugir 10.0
- Template: 1.0.10

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Move sync script to helpers/, remove personal config
- Move sync-config.sh → helpers/sync-config.sh
- Replace personal paths/hostnames with generic placeholders
- Mark as helper script, not part of official installation
- Rename backup-air → backup-remote for generic usage
- Add helpers section to README

README.md, after:

# UO Outlands Mac Installer

Automated installation script for [UO Outlands](https://uooutlands.com/) on Apple Silicon Macs using Wine + [Sikarugir](https://github.com/Sikarugir-App).

## Requirements

- Apple Silicon Mac (M1/M2/M3/M4)
- macOS 13 (Ventura) or later
- ~10 GB free disk space
- [Homebrew](https://brew.sh) installed
- Internet connection

## Installation

### One-liner (copy & paste into Terminal)

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Srbino/uo-outlands-mac/main/install.sh | bash
```

### Step by step

If you've never used Terminal before:

1. Open **Terminal** (press `Cmd + Space`, type `Terminal`, hit Enter)
2. Install [Homebrew](https://brew.sh) (if you don't have it) — paste this and follow the prompts:
   ```bash
   /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
   ```
3. Download and run the installer:
   ```bash
   curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Srbino/uo-outlands-mac/main/install.sh -o install.sh
   chmod +x install.sh
   ./install.sh
   ```
4. Follow the on-screen instructions. The Outlands installer GUI will pop up — install the game and **close the installer window** when done.
5. Launch the game by double-clicking `outlands.app` in `~/Applications/Sikarugir/`

The script will install and configure everything automatically:
- Rosetta 2
- Wine Stable + Sikarugir (via Homebrew)
- Latest Wine engine + wrapper template (auto-detected from GitHub)
- Outlands wrapper with D3DMetal, WINEESYNC/WINEMSYNC
- .NET runtimes (dotnet20sp2, dotnet40, dotnet481)
- UO Outlands game client

## Uninstall

```bash
# Remove game only (wrapper + Sikarugir data)
./install.sh --uninstall

# Remove everything including Wine and Sikarugir brew casks
./install.sh --purge
```

## What It Installs

| Component | Location |
|-----------|----------|
| Wrapper | `~/Applications/Sikarugir/outlands.app` |
| Engines/Templates | `~/Library/Application Support/Sikarugir/` |
| Wine Stable | `/Applications/Wine Stable.app` (via Homebrew) |
| Sikarugir Creator | `/Applications/Sikarugir Creator.app` (via Homebrew) |
| Install log | `~/Library/Logs/outlands_install_*.log` |

## Features

- Bash 3.2 compatible (stock macOS `/bin/bash`)
- Idempotent — safe to re-run, skips completed steps
- Auto-detects latest engine and template versions from GitHub
- All downloads verified (`curl -f`, non-empty check)
- Cleanup trap for temp files on failure
- Full install log with timestamps

## Audio Setup

Wine on macOS often produces audio crackling. After installation:

1. Open **Audio MIDI Setup.app** (press `Cmd + Space`, type `audio midi`)
2. Select your output device
3. Change sample rate to **48000 Hz** or **96000 Hz**

Wired headphones work better than Bluetooth for Wine audio.

## Tips

- Switch between Razor and Game windows: **Cmd + \`** (backtick)
- Reconfigure wrapper: Right-click `outlands.app` → Show Package Contents → `Configure.app`
- Razor profiles location: `drive_c/users/crossover/Application Data/Razor/`

## Helper Scripts

The `helpers/` directory contains optional utility scripts that are **not part of the official installation**. They are personal migration/backup tools — you must edit them to match your own setup before use.

| Script | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `helpers/sync-config.sh` | Backup, restore, and sync ClassicUO profiles/scripts between two Macs via SSH |

See each script's header comments for usage and configuration instructions.

## Tested On

- M3 MacBook Air, macOS Tahoe (26.x)
- M4 Mac Mini, macOS Tahoe (26.x)
- Engine: WS12WineSikarugir 10.0
- Template: 1.0.10

## License

MIT
